AIM

The aim of this project is it to make communication very much simpler for 
physically challenged (dumb, deaf) people and to enable hygienic communication 
in public places using hand gestures.


 OBJECTIVES

Hand Gesture recognition systems allow us to communicate with the machine,which is more familiar
 to the human being, creative, normal, user-friendly.Hand gesture recognition covers a wide range 
of applications including contact with the human machine, sign language, immersive game technology etc. 
The main objective of static hand gesture recognition is to classify the given
hand gesture data represented by some features into some predefined finite number-of-gesture-classes.

PROPOSED SYSTEM
 
The overview of the hand gesture recognition is described in Figure 1. First, the hand is detected using the background subtraction method 
and the result of hand detection is transformed to a binary image. Then, the fingers and palm are segmented so as to facilitate the finger recognition.
Moreover, the fingers are detected and recognized. Last, hand gestures are recognized using a simple rule classifier.
 

Software Requirements

●	Since this is a software hence it will have to run on some hardware and operating system obviously, so below are the requirements to run this software:
●	Windows/Linux/Mac OS any version, hence it can run on any platform.
●	Python3, it needs python to be installed in your system to run this successfully.

Packages in python:-

●	OpenCV
●	Tensorflow
●	Mediapipe 

Hardware Requirements
In terms of hardware requirements there is not much required at all but still below requirements are must:

●	Working PC or Laptop
●	Webcam with drivers installed

ADVANTAGES OF PROPOSED SYSTEM

●	With this System We can Conduct Video Surveillance and Identify the running Processes.
●	This System Breaks the Video in many Frames.

●	In this System we perform Video Editing and Formatting in the System and it will  successfully saved in the proposed System

APPLICATIONS 
Our HGR can be used as an HCI mechanism for various applications, such as a 
 virtual touchscreen for desktop computers, 
 sending visual commands for robots, 
 a controller for virtual reality gaming systems, and 
 a remote control for large screen displays . 




